---
author: ["Adit Chakraborty"]
title: "The Digital/Familial Divide"
date: "2024-04-07"
---

Esteemed members of the Commonwealth, thank you for all gathering here today to discuss the issues that face the world, and allowing me to speak my piece on what I think that problem is. First of all, I must preface my speech by highlighting that there is not just one issue that is the most important for the world; there are several problems which impact many different demographics, and the answer to this question will probably vary greatly from person to person. This is simply my answer to the question, based on experiences I have had and things I have seen and heard from others within my community. 

Humour me for a second, and imagine this: A young teen is on social media and VoIP apps, and knows many people around the world. But due to these online friends, times meant for family bonding like dinner times or game nights are neglected. While the teen sows and nurtures the seeds which can grow into a broader friend group and wider relationships, the roots closer to home, which can keep them going through their hardest moments, start to unravel and shrivel away. While this might sound like I am preaching to the choir here, this is something that happens surprisingly often within households. 

Now, I do not pretend to be perfect in this regard as well, because I have probably done exactly what was mentioned above before, more than once. Neither am I saying that social media is the devil and it is the biggest problem plaguing our communities. Suggesting that would be lunacy, as the advent of social media and the usage of computers to further communication has proven to be an incredible asset to the entire world time and time again. However, focusing on the numerous positives of the internet can sometimes lead us to forget about these negatives. So, my proposal is that the biggest issue facing the world is not the digitalisation of the world, but the over digitalisation, and how not only teenagers, but the wider world, seem to use technology in places it does not belong, without anticipating the downsides it could bring. 

Now, if you look at the problem from a broader perspective, we realise that the main demographic to focus on here is the young teens. Again, and I stress this as one of my main points, that the problem does not lie just with that group, and there are many adults who are in the same predicament as well. However, by and large, teenagers are the largest group where this phenomenon of making wider connections while forgetting those closest to you is observed. Statistics show that over 95% of teenagers use social media on a daily basis, and of that 95%, 57% of them have claimed to make online friends. Here, in terms of the Commonwealth Values, Value No. 13, “Importance of Young People in The Commonwealth”, speaks to me louder than the other values here. 

As the value suggests, young people play an incredibly important role in the Commonwealth's continued growth, and especially in this issue, I feel that proper guidance by parents and the wider community is the best solution, along with understanding their children's motivations for their actions. Of course, this is already in effect, and in no small scale either. However, the technique of providing this guidance differs greatly from household to household, and that, in my opinion, could be one of the things slowing us down. While I do not consider myself as any authority to give parenting advice, or in any way talk about how to discipline anyone, but from my experience, a little bit of kindness goes a long way. Explaining to them that both relationships are important, but family will be the force that will always be there, and reinforcing it through positive reinforcement as opposed to only telling them, from my experience, is always the most successful method. 

I end this speech with a quote from the late Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth, which I think relates to this topic. “No age group has a monopoly of wisdom, and indeed I think the young can sometimes be wiser than us. But, the older I get, the more conscious I become of the difficulties young people have to face as they learn to live in the modern world.”
